So our next topic is sense and
reference. Now I don't want to
tell you. Too much about the
topic here. 'cause That's going
to be quite difficult. Instead,
I want to start by giving you
just a hint at the difficulty
we’re supposed to imagine. Sense and
reference is one of those really
foundational topics that I think
you're going to find useful in a
whole variety of things.
At times when we're talking
about this, it's going to seem
perhaps to some people just a
tiny bit technical. But what we
already discovering is some.
Key feature about the nature of
mines feature that was
discovered more than 100 years
ago and has proved absolutely
fundamental in Merritt. In many
areas of thinking about minds.
It's also relevant for thinking
about communication with words
as well. So it comes up in
philosophy of language. But
we're going to approach this, of
course in mind and reality as a.
Philosophy of mind topic.
So let me start with a simple
story. Hang on a second.
Now I'm ready to start with
the simple story. This is from
a philosophy called Richard.
Andrea is in her office on the
telephone to her friend. Then
there she is chattering away.
She looks out of the window and
she notices a man on the street
below who's using his mobile
phone right? You see people
doing this The Walking around
with the mobile phones. They're
kind of like zombies to the
world when they're doing this.
They're just all kind of, you
know, really into this and this
guy is clearly having a good
time on his phone. He's not
looking where he's going, he's
about to step in front of a bus
that can happen. Andrea, looking
out of the window doesn't
realize that this man is Ben,
the French speaking to on the
phone. So what she does, she
hangs on the window. She
waves frantically in an
attempt to warn the man.
But she says nothing into the
phone. She doesn't say anything
to Ben himself. OK, so there's
the story very good now. Richard
doesn't tell us how the story
ends. We know that Andreas is
nothing into the phone. We know
that she doesn't realize that
the man is Ben. We don't know
what happens after that. Now you
could imagine this in a kind of
ASDF style. I like trains.
I prefer to imagine that story
is having a happier ending, so
my version of the story richer
doesn't say this, but what
happens is that the bus driver
slams on the brakes. No one in
the bus is hurt. Richard Ben
steps back from the pavement and
the bus driver does a certain
amount of cursing and then
everyone goes out there way,
Ben. Suitably chastened, right?
He's not going to be walking
around talking on this phone
again in a hurry.
Stupid thing to do now?
So the crux of the story is
this something that Andrea
doesn't realize? What doesn't
matter, I realize. Well, simple
that this man is been right. If
she knew that that was Ben
should be telling Ben into the
phone, stop the bus coming.
Don't walk into the street.
So why is that interesting? Why
is there any kind of problem
here? Well, let's think about an
inference. I want to show you
very, very simple inference
here. Here's an inference man is
about to step in this man.
The man that Andrea see through
the window is about to step out
in front of us. Secondly, this
man is Ben.
Therefore, if you know those two
things, you can conclude as a
matter of logic. That Ben is
about to step out in front of
her boss. I want to go slowly
here and really emphasize to you
that this inferences. A
logically valid inference.
If you know the premises you
were justified in asserting
the conclusion purely as a
matter of logic.
Thing to note here partly is
that he is in this man is Ben is
the is of numerical identity,
right? We're saying that there
is just one thing here. Seems
like there are two, but in fact
there's just one. This is the is
of numerical identity, whereas
of course the other is is this
man is about step in front of us
and so on. What's happening?
There is nothing to do with
identity, that's just
predication, right? We're just
saying something about these men
were talking about some property
that these men have. Write the
property of being about step in
front of us. Very good now.
I think about this in terms of
1st order logic, so you may
have done first or logic you
may be doing that next term.
I'm not really sure, but it's
going to be helpful to you
either way to think about it
in terms of 1st year logic.
So what we can do is formalize
this little inference and what
I've got here is a that stands
for this man. That's a name for
the man that Andrea is looking
out at through the window names
the person itself. And a
predicate. Which stands for is
about to step out in front of us
and I chose to write. The
predicate is at risk, So what
you see happening here in the?
Logical sentences. We've got a
name. We've got a predicate in
the predicates being applied to
the name. Very simple. Let's
have a look at the next premise.
Well, the next premises, a
simple statement of identity.
Here the equal sign stands for
numerical identity and what
we're saying is that A&B are.
Numerical identical,
they are one thing.
Very good and then the
conclusion of course, does at
Risk B where B is the name I
picked for Andrea's friend Ben.
And I mentioned this because I
wanted to stress that if you
look at that logical argument,
you can clearly see that the
conclusion follows from the
premise as a matter of logical
consequence, this is just a very
simple application of the rule
that you will come to know and
Love as identity elimination.
Apply that identity elimination
rule and you get from the two
premises to the conclusion that
Ben is at risk.
So what Andrea is failing to do?
Her failure can only be, but she
doesn't know that this man is.
Then that's the only thing that
can prevent her from drawing
this conclusion. Everything else
follows as a matter of logic.
Why am I stressing this?
Well. Let's go and have a look
at about what people say about
numerical identity. We're
talking here about a fact about
numerical identity. Andrea
doesn't know that David Lewis
very famous meta physician says
identity is utterly simple and
unproblematic. Everything is
identical to itself. Nothing is
ever identical to anything
except itself. Now that's
true. People are sometimes
confused about this because
they think about identity in a
political or cultural sense.
Alright, so I might have. I
might say, you know I have an
identity as a British citizen.
But here I'm not really talking
about identity in their logical
sense at all. There's nothing
that I'm numerically identical
to in virtue of being British
citizen, at least on any
sensible view of the matter.
This is just some property that
I happened to have write the
property of being a British
citizen so clearly. When we're
talking about identity, there
were talking about the identity
of predication. The link
between me and a property
something quite different.
Likewise for the cultural
things.
Lewis goes on. There never was
any problem about what makes
something identical to itself.
Nothing can ever fail to be
identical to itself, nor says
Lewis. Is there any problem
about what makes two things
identical? Afterall, two things
can't be identical, otherwise
they'd be one.
Very sensible. So Lewis is point
is that identity is utterly
simple and unproblematic. There
isn't really anything
interesting for philosopher to
do here. But here's the problem.
According to another perhaps
equally famous philosopher
Fragar, who's responsible for
this whole discussion on sensor
reference? Identity gives rise
to challenging questions which
are not altogether easy to
answer, Huh? So now we gotta
conflict. Frege thinks
that Richards little story about
Andrea and Ben and other
variants of it that he has.
Revealed that there's some
interesting challenge concerning
the nature of identity.
And the nature of our thoughts.
On the other hand, there are
philosophers like Louis. You
make a very good case for the
idea that identity is utterly
simple and unproblematic.
So one of the things we need to
do in thinking about sense of
references try to understand why
does fragar think that the case
of Andrea and Ben is so
puzzling? I guess that in fact
contradict what Lewis is saying
about identity. Let's find out.